## Loading Point Clouds

LuciadRIA offers robust capabilities for loading high-resolution point clouds. Point-clouds are typicallyu generated by lidar cameras that perform the scanning of real world scenarios.

LuciadRIA allow you to load point clouds in 2 formats:
- OGC 3D Tiles 
- Hexagon Smart Point Cloud (HSPC)

We have discused OGC 3D tiles in a previous example. Therefore we will focus in this article about HSPC.

### HSPC
Hexagon HSPC, or Hexagon Smart Point Cloud (HSPC), is a technology developed by Hexagon, a global leader in digital reality solutions. HSPC is designed to manage and process large volumes of point cloud data efficiently. Point clouds are sets of data points in space, typically produced by 3D scanners or LiDAR systems, representing the external surfaces of objects or environments.

#### Key Features of Hexagon HSPC:
- **Efficient Data Management**: HSPC technology is optimized for handling vast amounts of point cloud data, enabling efficient storage, retrieval, and processing.

- **Scalability**: It is designed to scale with the size of the data, allowing users to work with extensive datasets without significant performance degradation.

- **Interoperability**: HSPC supports integration with various software tools and platforms, facilitating seamless workflows across different applications and industries.

- **Visualization**: The technology includes features for rendering and visualizing point cloud data, providing users with the ability to view and analyze 3D data effectively.

- **Application Versatility**: HSPC can be used in various industries, including construction, surveying, architecture, and geospatial analysis, where accurate 3D representations of environments are crucial.
- **Advanced Processing**: It offers advanced processing capabilities, such as filtering, segmentation, and classification, to extract meaningful information from raw point cloud data.


### Loading HSPC data in the map

HSPC follows the  model and a layer pattern:

- [HSPCTilesModel Documentation](https://dev.luciad.com/portal/productDocumentation/LuciadRIA/docs/reference/LuciadRIA/modules/_luciad_ria_model_tileset_HSPCTilesModel.html)
- [TileSet3DLayer Documentation](https://dev.luciad.com/portal/productDocumentation/LuciadRIA/docs/reference/LuciadRIA/classes/_luciad_ria_view_tileset_TileSet3DLayer.TileSet3DLayer.html)

## Creating a HSPC Point Cloud Layer

To create a HSPC model, you must initialize the `HSPCTilesModel` using a slightly different approach. Since the class constructor is private, you must use the `create` method to instantiate the model.

The `create` method performs a server query to gather all necessary information for model initialization. It returns a promise, allowing for asynchronous operations and ensuring that the model is fully prepared before use. Below is an example of how to implement this:

```typescript
// Create the model
HSPCTilesModel.create(url, {}).then((model:HSPCTilesModel)=>{
    //Create a layer for the model
    const layer = new TileSet3DLayer(model, {
        label: "HSPC Layer",
    });

    //Add the model to the map
    map.layerTree.addChild(layer);

    // Zoom to the point cloud location
    map.mapNavigator.fit({ bounds: layer.bounds, animate: true });
});
```

### Styling Point Cloud Data

The `TileSet3DLayer` in LuciadRIA offers an extensive array of styling options, empowering you to customize the visual representation of your 3D data to fulfill specific aesthetic and functional needs. By tailoring these styles, you can significantly enhance the clarity, emphasis, and overall impact of your visualizations.

To apply a custom style to your point cloud data, you can set the `pointCloudStyle` property of the `TileSet3DLayer`:

```typescript
layer.pointCloudStyle = YOUR_CUSTOM_STYLE;
```

For comprehensive details on defining and applying these styles, please refer to the [PointCloudStyle interface documentation](https://dev.luciad.com/portal/productDocumentation/LuciadRIA/docs/reference/LuciadRIA/interfaces/_luciad_ria_view_style_PointCloudStyle.PointCloudStyle.html). Additionally, you can explore the [guide on styling and filtering point clouds](https://dev.luciad.com/portal/productDocumentation/LuciadRIA/docs/articles/howto/ogc3dtiles/styling_filtering_point_clouds.html?subcategory=ria_hspc) for more practical insights.

These resources provide detailed guidance on various visual parameters you can adjust, such as color, transparency, and other visual effects.

By leveraging these styling capabilities, LuciadRIA enables developers to create immersive and interactive 3D visualizations. These visualizations are ideal for a broad spectrum of applications, ranging from detailed urban planning models to dynamic virtual simulations, enhancing both the user experience and the utility of the data presented.
